Voice Assistant (Votta)
Project Overview
Votta is an offline, personal voice assistant that can perform various system-level tasks such as opening applications, playing music, providing system health information, and more. This project does not use any external APIs, making it fully functional without an internet connection.

Features
Voice-Based Interaction: Interact with Votta using voice commands. The assistant can listen and respond to your requests.
System Health Monitoring: Get real-time updates on CPU usage, memory usage, and battery status.
System Information: Retrieve details about your system, including OS version, processor, machine type, etc.
Play Music: Votta will play a random song from your Music directory.
Open Applications: Quickly open common applications such as Notepad, Calculator, and Command Prompt.
Lock, Shutdown, and Restart System: Lock your system or trigger shutdown and restart commands through voice.
Time Information: Ask Votta to tell the current time.
Wikipedia Search: Use Votta to search and summarize Wikipedia content.
Installation
Prerequisites
Python 3.x
The following Python libraries are required:
pyttsx3 (for Text-to-Speech)
SpeechRecognition (for Speech-to-Text)
wikipedia (for Wikipedia search)
psutil (for system usage monitoring)
platform (for system information retrieval)
Steps
Clone the repository or download the project files.
Install the required libraries using pip:
bash
Copy code
pip install pyttsx3 SpeechRecognition wikipedia psutil
Run the script:
bash
Copy code
python voice_assistant.py
Usage
Upon running the script, Votta will greet you and wait for your commands.
You can use voice commands such as:
"Search Wikipedia for [query]" – Votta will search Wikipedia and read the summary.
"Play music" – Votta will play a random song from your music directory.
"Open Notepad" – Votta will open Notepad for you.
"Tell me the time" – Votta will announce the current time.
"Lock system", "Shutdown system", or "Restart system" – Votta will execute these system-level tasks.
"What is the system health?" – Votta will provide CPU usage, memory usage, and battery status.
"What is my system info?" – Votta will display information about your operating system and hardware.
Customization
You can modify the paths to your preferred music directory or add more common applications by editing the playMusic() and openApp() functions in the code.

Voice Commands
Here are some example commands to try:

"Search Wikipedia for Python programming"
"Play music"
"Open Notepad"
"What is the time?"
"Lock system"
"What is the system health?"
"What is my system info?"
"Shutdown system" (careful, this will turn off your computer!)
Troubleshooting
Voice not recognized: Ensure your microphone is working and that you're speaking clearly. You may need to adjust the r.pause_threshold value in the takeCommand() function.
No audio output: Make sure your speakers or headphones are properly connected. Check if the volume is muted.
Application paths: If Votta can't open an application, verify the paths in the openApp() function are correct for your system.
Future Features
Integrating file management (opening, copying, and deleting files).
Adding more system utilities like checking network status or managing running processes.
Expanding to support more local applications without the use of any online services.
License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.
